hello this is pressure Walker I am the
author of multiply numbers by drawing
lines please check out my book it's the
first text that's been written about
this visual way to multiplying numbers
in this video I'm going to teach you a
trick I discovered while writing the
book which is a rotation trick from the
diagram first let's review how you
multiply numbers by drawing lines let's
say you want to multiply 12 by 13 for
the one in 12 we'll draw one line for
the two we'll leave a little bit of
space and draw two lines for the other
number we'll draw lines in the other
direction now we will group up
intersections of the lines on the far
right there are six intersections in the
middle there are five intersections and
on the left there's one intersection
these numbers tell you what the answer
is so 12 times 13 is 156 but there's a
cool thing you can do now that you draw
in the diagram let's remove some of the
labels now what we're going to do is
rotate this entire diagram 90 degrees
and the thing I discovered is that you
now get a new diagram and this can solve
a new multiplication problem let's look
at the lines that are going to the upper
right here we have one line and then we
have three lines so that means the first
number we're multiplying is 13 for the
lines in the other direction we have two
lines followed by one line which
represents the number 21 so this diagram
represents 13 times 21 we can again
group the intersections that are
vertically aligned we have three on the
right seven in the center and two on the
left and that gives us our answer that
13 times 21 is 273 and this is really
cool we've solved another problem from
the same diagram we've already drawn but
we can even do more let's go ahead and
rotate this diagram by 90 degrees once
more we now have a new diagram and we
can solve another multiplication problem
the lines going up into the right are
two lines followed by one line which is
21 the lines going to the bottom right
are three lines and then one line so
that's 31 so this diagram represents 21
times 31 will now count up vertically
aligned intersections there's one on the
right five in the center and six on the
left so that means 21 times 31 is 651
we're not done yet we can do this one
more time we'll rotate the diagram 90
degrees now there's a pattern each time
you rotate the diagram it turns out that
you're going to switch the two numbers
and switch the digits in the second
number but let's go ahead and count the
lines anyway the line sloping up into
the right are three lines followed by
one line 431 the line sloping down into
the right are 1 followed by 2 which is
12 we now count up the intersections
there's two on the right 7 in the center
and 3 on the left so we have 31 times 12
is 372 if we rotate one more time we're
back to our original problem of 12 by 13
now with this one diagram can solve for
different parliment problems depending
on
you orient it so it's really amazing
that there's a hidden geometry to
arithmetic and even though millions have
of people have seen videos about
multiplying numbers by drawing lines
this is the first time that a video has
been made to show you how you can rotate
the diagram and solve other problems so
this connects geometry and arithmetic in
a completely unsurprising way so it's a
cool trick I hope you like it and please
share this video if you enjoyed this
concept please check out my book
multiply numbers by drawing lines thanks
for watching please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions you can follow mind your
decisions on Facebook Google+ and
patreon you can also catch me at
pressure Locker on Twitter Instagram
Tumblr and Pinterest and you can get all
of my books there's a link in the video
description